
Lesson Plan 2 (Lower Elementary Grades)
Topic: STL 8A: Everyone can design solutions to a problem.
Grade: K-2
Lesson Title: Designing in Line
Duration: 50-80 minutes

Overview (include background information):
Students are given a primitive to create (sphere, cone, etc.) and each member of the group gets a variable to choose 
(size, location, color, etc.) The class will then compare primitives and discuss why each looks different.

Lesson Objectives:
Students will be able to articulate that everyone can participate in the design process.
Students will be able to articulate what components control the appearance of a primitive in OpenSCAD.

Summary of Tasks:
Present on the engineering design process (or, alternatively, design as a subject.)
Split the class into groups. 
Assign each student or group of students a primitive. For groups of students, assign each student a variable to change (size, location, color, etc.)
Have the students create their primitive based on the parameters provided.
Have each group present their newly built primitives. 
Discuss why each primitive looks different, and what design choices each group made.
Finalize the discussion by talking about the design choices engineers make in the context of solving problems.

Consumables needed:
One OpenSCAD file with one primitive pre-coded per group of students.

Teacher Preparations:
Prepare the OpenSCAD files for each group.
Create/find a presentation on the engineering design process (or design as a subject!)

Procedures:
Present on the engineering design process (this is the model for engineering design that ITEEA uses for K-2 students, for more context.) (15-20 minutes)
Assign students to groups. Assign each student a variable to control. (5-10 minutes.)
Have each group edit their primitive files. (15-20 minutes.)
Have each group present their built primitives. (5-15 minutes.)
Discuss why each primitive looks the way it does, and what design choices led to the primitives that each group presented. (5-10 minutes.)
Wrap up with a discussion about how building objects in real life is similar to modeling them 
(i.e how construction/geometry is similar to the technology you used today,) you need to know how big/what shapes the components are, 
and where those components go. (5-10 minutes.)

Assessment:
Students will be able to articulate why their design decisions had an impact on the design of the primitive. 

Additional Resources:
ITEEA’s Engineering Design Process for K-2 Students
The Engineering Process, Crash Course Kids 12.2
Link Engineering - Educator Exchange
